[IMP] helpdesk: update receiving tickets (#7579)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/services/helpdesk/overview/receiving_tickets.rst

=================
Receiving tickets
=================

Odoo *Helpdesk* offers multiple channels where customers can reach out for assistance, such as
email, live chat, and through a website's submission form. The variety of these contact options
provides customers with multiple opportunities to receive support quickly while also allowing the
support team to manage multi-channel support tickets from one central location.

Enable channel options to submit tickets
========================================

Go to :menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams`, and choose an existing
team, or click :guilabel:`New` to :doc:`create a new team <getting_started>`.

On the team's settings page, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Channels` and :guilabel:`Help Center`
sections. Enable one or more channels by checking the respective boxes.

> - :ref:`Email Alias <receiving_tickets/email-alias>`
> - :ref:`Live Chat <receiving_tickets/live-chat>`
> - :ref:`Website Form <receiving_tickets/website-form>`

Reviewer: Update custom anchors to include app|module name
```suggestion
- :ref:`Email Alias <helpdesk/receiving_tickets/email-alias>`
- :ref:`Live Chat <helpdesk/receiving_tickets/live-chat>`
- :ref:`Website Form <helpdesk/receiving_tickets/website-form>`
```

> .. _receiving_tickets/email-alias:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _helpdesk/receiving_tickets/email-alias:
```

on the team's settings page.

To change a *Helpdesk* team's email alias, navigate to :menuselection:`Helpdesk app -->
Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams`, and click on a team name to open its settings page.

Then, scroll to :menuselection:`Channels --> Email Alias`. In the :guilabel:`Alias` field, type the
desired name for the team's email alias.

.. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-email-alias.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the settings page of a Helpdesk team emphasizing the email alias feature in Odoo
         Helpdesk.

.. note::
   Custom email domains are **not** required in order to use an email alias, however, they can be
   configured through the *Settings* app.

   If the database does not have a custom domain already configured, click :guilabel:`Set an Alias
   Domain` to be redirected to the :guilabel:`Settings` page. From there, enable :guilabel:`Custom
   Email Servers`.

When an email is received, the subject line becomes the title of a new *Helpdesk* ticket. The body
of the email is also added to the ticket, under the :guilabel:`Description` tab, and in the ticket's

> *chatter*.

Reviewer: I think _chatter_ could do without formatting, however, if you like it– keep it :)
```suggestion
chatter.
```

> .. _receiving_tickets/live-chat:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _helpdesk/receiving_tickets/live-chat:
```

.. tip::
   Users can add themselves as an operator by clicking the :guilabel:`Join Channel` button on a
   *Live Chat* channel.

   .. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-join-live-chat.png
      :align: center
      :alt: View of a live chat channel Kanban card with the join button emphasized.

Options tab
***********

The :guilabel:`Options` tab contains the visual and text settings for the live chat window.

.. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-options-tab.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the options tab of a Live Chat channel's settings.

- :guilabel:`Notification Text`: this field updates the greeting displayed in the text bubble when
  the live chat button appears on the website.

- :guilabel:`Livechat Button Color`: this field alters the color of the live chat button as it
  appears on the website. To change the color, click on a color bubble to open the color selection
  window, then click and drag the circle along the color gradient. Click out of the selection window
  once complete. Click the refresh icon to the right of the color bubbles to reset the colors to the
  default selection.

> - :guilabel:`Welcome Message`: this field changes the first message a visitor receives when they
>   open the chat window. This message appears as though it is sent by a live chat operator, and
>   should be an invitation to continue the conversation.
> 
> - :guilabel:`Chat Input Placeholder`: this field changes the text that appears in the box where
>   visitors type their replies. For example, `Ask a question here`.
> 
> - :guilabel:`Channel Header Color`: this field alters the color of the channel window once a visitor
>   opens it to begin a conversation. As with the button color, click on a color bubble to open the
>   color selection window, then click and drag the circle along the color gradient. Click out of the
>   selection window once complete. Click the refresh icon to the right of the color bubbles to reset
>   the colors to the default selection.

Reviewer: No need for an empty line between bullets of the same level
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Show`: the chat button displays on the selected page.
- :guilabel:`Show with notification`: the chat button is displayed, with the addition of the
  :guilabel:`Notification text` from the :guilabel:`Options` tab.
- :guilabel:`Open automatically`: the chat button is displayed, and automatically opens the chat
  window after a designated amount of time. The amount of time is designated in the :guilabel:`Open
  automatically timer` field, which appears only when this display option is selected.
- :guilabel:`Hide`: the chat button is hidden from display on the webpage.
```

chat window.

The live chat :guilabel:`Widget` can be applied to websites created through Odoo by navigating to
the :menuselection:`Website app --> Configuration --> Settings --> Email & Marketing`. Then, scroll
to the :guilabel:`Live Chat` field, and select the channel to add to the site. Click
:guilabel:`Save` to apply.

To add the widget to a website created on a third-party website, click the :guilabel:`Copy` button
next to the first listed code, and paste the code into the `<head>` tag on the site.

To send a live chat session to a customer or supplier, click the :guilabel:`Copy` button next to the
second listed code, and send the URL via email.

Create a support ticket from a live chat session
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Operators who have joined a live chat channel are able to communicate with site visitors in
real-time.

During the conversation, an operator can use the shortcut :doc:`command
</applications/websites/livechat/responses>` `/ticket` to create a ticket without leaving the chat
window. The transcript from the conversation is added to the new ticket, under the
:guilabel:`Description` tab.

.. tip::

>    *Helpdesk* tickets can also be created through the :doc:`Whatsapp

Reviewer: Whatsapp ➡️ WhatsApp
```suggestion
   *Helpdesk* tickets can also be created through the :doc:`WhatsApp
```

   </applications/productivity/whatsapp>` app using the same `/ticket` command.

> .. _receiving_tickets/website-form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _helpdesk/receiving_tickets/website-form:
```

   :align: center
   :alt: View of the settings page of a Helpdesk team emphasizing the email alias feature in Odoo
         Helpdesk.

.. note::
   If the database does not have a custom domain already configured, click :guilabel:`Configure a
   custom domain` to be redirected to the :guilabel:`Settings` page. From there, enable
   :guilabel:`Custom Email Servers`.

When an email is received, the subject line becomes the title of a new *Helpdesk* ticket. The body
of the email is also added to the ticket under the :guilabel:`Description` tab and in the ticket's
:guilabel:`Chatter`.

.. _receiving_tickets/live-chat:

Live Chat
---------

The *Live Chat* feature lets website visitors to connect directly with a support agent or chatbot.
*Helpdesk* tickets can be instantly created during these conversations using the :doc:`response
command </applications/websites/livechat/responses>` `/ticket`.

To enable *Live Chat*, navigate to the :menuselection:`Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams` list view,
select a team, and on the :guilabel:`Teams` settings page, click the checkbox next to
:guilabel:`Live Chat` under the :guilabel:`Channels` heading.

> .. note::

Reviewer 2: I see it in the section below-  disregard!

Odoo *Helpdesk* offers multiple channels where customers can reach out for assistance, such as
email, live chat, and through a website's submission form. The variety of these contact options
provides customers with multiple opportunities to receive support quickly while also allowing the
support team to manage multi-channel support tickets from one central location.

Enable channel options to submit tickets
========================================

Go to :menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams` and choose an existing
team, or click :guilabel:`New` to :doc:`create a new team <getting_started>`.

On the team's settings page, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Channels` and :guilabel:`Help Center`
sections. Enable one or more channels by checking the respective boxes.

- :ref:`Email Alias <receiving_tickets/email-alias>`
- :ref:`Live Chat <receiving_tickets/live-chat>`

> - :ref:`Website Form <receiving_tickets/website-form>`

Author: No, those are part of the help center, they are not considered channels. According to the PO, the webform was regrouped under the help center heading with 17 because it is required to enable any of the other Help Center functions (elearning, knowledge, or forums). However, it is still considered a channel. Help center is a different document entirely

   the database, the page may need to be saved manually and refreshed before any further steps can
   be taken.

After the :guilabel:`Live Chat` setting is enabled on a *Helpdesk* team, a new *Live Chat* channel
is created. Click on :guilabel:`Configure Live Chat Channel` to update the channel's settings.

Customize the live chat channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On the channel's settings page, :guilabel:`Channel Name` can be edited, though, Odoo names the
channel to match the *Helpdesk* team name, by default.

.. example::
   If a *Helpdesk* team is named `Customer Care`, a *Live Chat* channel is created with the same
   name.

   .. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-live-chat-new-channel.png
      :align: center
      :alt: View of the Kanban cards for the available Live Chat channels.

On the channel form, navigate through the tabs to complete the setup.

Add operators
*************

*Operators* are the users who act as agents and respond to live chat requests from customers. The
user who created the live chat channel is added by default.

To add additional users, click on the :guilabel:`Operators` tab, click :guilabel:`ADD`.

> Click the checkbox next to the users to be added, and click :guilabel:`SELECT`. Click

Reviewer 2: This buttons appears in title case, like the New button.

> :guilabel:`New` to create new operators. Then, click :guilabel:`SAVE & CLOSE`, or :guilabel:`SAVE &

Reviewer 2: Same with the Save & Close - they are all title case. Sorry I didn't catch this the first time!

NEW` to add multiple new operators.

As well, current operators can be edited or removed by clicking on their respective boxes in the
:guilabel:`Operators` tab, and then adjusting their form values, or by using one of the form buttons

> located at the bottom of the form, such as :guilabel:`REMOVE`.

Reviewer 2: This is also title case.

.. tip::
   Users can add themselves as an operator by clicking the :guilabel:`Join Channel` button on a
   *Live Chat* channel.

   .. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-join-live-chat.png
      :align: center
      :alt: View of a live chat channel Kanban card with the join button emphasized.

Modify channel options
**********************

The :guilabel:`Options` tab contains the visual and text settings for the live chat window.

- :guilabel:`Notification Text`: this field updates the greeting displayed in the text bubble when
  the live chat button appears on the website.

- :guilabel:`Welcome Message`: this field changes the first message a visitor receives when they
  open the chat window. This message appears as though it is sent by a live chat operator, and
  should be an invitation to continue the conversation.

- :guilabel:`Chat Input Placeholder`: this field changes the text that appears in the box where
  visitors type their replies.

> 

Reviewer 3: These seem miss ordered- they have two columns (livechat button / livechat window)

You go from left to right....

on the team's settings page. To change a *Helpdesk* team's email alias, navigate to
:menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams` and click on a team name to open
its settings page. Scroll to :menuselection:`Channels --> Email Alias`. In the :guilabel:`Alias`
field, type the desired name for the team's email alias.

.. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-email-alias.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the settings page of a Helpdesk team emphasizing the email alias feature in Odoo
         Helpdesk.

.. note::
   Custom email domains are **not** required in order to use an email alias, however, they can be
   configured through the *Settings* app. If the database does not have a custom domain already
   configured, click :guilabel:`Configure a custom domain` to be redirected to the
   :guilabel:`Settings` page. From there, enable :guilabel:`Custom Email Servers`.

When an email is received, the subject line becomes the title of a new *Helpdesk* ticket. The body
of the email is also added to the ticket under the :guilabel:`Description` tab and in the ticket's

> :guilabel:`Chatter`.

Author: You are right, and I think this will be part of the "Odoo specific" guidelines we discussed. In this case, since it is referring to the chatter on a ticket and not instructing the user to interact with the element directly, I will italicize it instead of using the guilabel

.. _receiving_tickets/live-chat:

Live Chat
---------

The *Live Chat* feature lets website visitors connect directly with a support agent or chatbot.
*Helpdesk* tickets can be instantly created during these conversations using the :doc:`response

> command </applications/websites/livechat/responses>` `/ticket`.

Author: The live chat docs are linked in the note below 👍

   *Live Chat* channel.

   .. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-join-live-chat.png
      :align: center
      :alt: View of a live chat channel Kanban card with the join button emphasized.

Modify channel options
**********************

The :guilabel:`Options` tab contains the visual and text settings for the live chat window.

- :guilabel:`Notification Text`: this field updates the greeting displayed in the text bubble when
  the live chat button appears on the website.

- :guilabel:`Welcome Message`: this field changes the first message a visitor receives when they
  open the chat window. This message appears as though it is sent by a live chat operator, and
  should be an invitation to continue the conversation.

- :guilabel:`Chat Input Placeholder`: this field changes the text that appears in the box where
  visitors type their replies. For example, `Ask your question here`.

- :guilabel:`Livechat Button Color` and the :guilabel:`Channel Header Color`: these fields alter the
  color of the live chat button as it appears on the website, and the channel window once a visitor

>   opens it to begin a conversation. To change the either of the colors, click a color bubble to open

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  opens it to begin a conversation. To change the **either** of the colors, click a color bubble to open
```

I think this is a typo here. I highlighted for emphasis!

   sequence of characters that specifies a match pattern in text. A match is made within the given
   range of numbers or for the set of characters.

Edit existing rules, or create a new one by clicking :guilabel:`Add a line`, and fill out the pop-up
form details based on how the rule should apply.

To include a :guilabel:`Chatbot` on this channel, select it from the drop-down menu. If the chatbot
should only be active when no operators are available, check the box labeled :guilabel:`Enabled only
if no operator`.

.. note::
   If a :doc:`chatbot </applications/websites/livechat/chatbots>` is added to a live chat channel, a
   new :guilabel:`Chatbots` smart button appears on the channel settings form. Click here to create
   and update the chatbot *script*. Each line in the script contains a :guilabel:`Message`,
   :guilabel:`Step Type`, :guilabel:`Answers`, and conditional *Only If* logic that applies when
   certain pre-filled answers are chosen. To create more steps in the script, click :guilabel:`Add a
   line` and fill out the script steps form according to the desired logic.

Add the URLs for the pages where the channel should appear to in the :guilabel:`URL Regex` field.

> Only the path fromthe root domain is needed, not the full URL. If this channel should only be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Only the path from the root domain is needed, not the full URL. If this channel should only be
```

> Only the path from the root domain is needed, not the full URL. If this channel should only be
> available to users in specific countries, add them to the :guilabel:`Country` field. If this field
> is left blank, the channel will be available to all site visitors.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Only the path from the root domain is needed, not the full URL.

If this channel should only be available to users in specific countries, add those countries to the
:guilabel:`Country` field. If this field is left blank, the channel is available to all site
visitors.
```

.. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-channel-rules.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the Kanban cards for the available Live Chat channels.

> Use the live chat widget
> ************************

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Widget tab
**********
```

The :guilabel:`Widget` tab on the live chat channel form offers a website widget that can be added

> to third party websites. Additionally, a URL is available, that can provide instant access to a live
> chat window.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
to third-party websites. Additionally, a URL is available, that can provide instant access to a live
chat window.
```

The live chat :guilabel:`Widget` can be applied to websites created through Odoo by navigating to

> the :menuselection:`Website app --> Configuration --> Settings --> Email & Marketing`. Then scroll
> to the :guilabel:`Live Chat` section, and select the channel to add to the site. Click
> :guilabel:`Save` to apply.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the :menuselection:`Website app --> Configuration --> Settings --> Email & Marketing`. Then, scroll
to the :guilabel:`Live Chat` field, and select the channel to add to the site. Click
:guilabel:`Save` to apply.
```

To add the widget to a website created on a third-party website, click the :guilabel:`Copy` button
next to the first listed code, and paste the code into the `<head>` tag on the site.

To send a live chat session to a customer or supplier, click the :guilabel:`Copy` button next to the

> second listed code, and send the URL via email.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
second listed code, and send the URL, via email.
```

Create a support ticket from a live chat session
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Operators who have joined a live chat channel are able to communicate with site visitors in real
> time.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Operators who have joined a live chat channel are able to communicate with site visitors in
real-time.
```

During the conversation, an operator can use the shortcut :doc:`command
</applications/websites/livechat/responses>` `/ticket` to create a ticket without leaving the chat
window. The transcript from the conversation is added to the new ticket, under the
:guilabel:`Description` tab.

.. tip::
   *Helpdesk* tickets can also be created through the :doc:`Whatsapp
   </applications/productivity/whatsapp>` app using the same `/ticket` command.

.. _receiving_tickets/website-form:

Website Form
------------

Enabling the *Website Form* setting adds a new page to the website with a customizable form. A new
ticket is created once the required form fields are filled out and submitted.

> To activate the website form, navigate to a team's settings page under :menuselection:`Configuration
> --> Helpdesk Teams`. Find the :guilabel:`Website Form` feature under the :guilabel:`Help Center`
> section, and check the box. If more than one website is active on the database, confirm the correct
> website is listed in the :guilabel:`Website` field. If not, select the correct one from the
> drop-down list.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To activate the website form, navigate to a team's settings page under :menuselection:`Helpdesk app
--> Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams`, and selecting the desired team from the list.

Then, locate the :guilabel:`Website Form` feature, under the :guilabel:`Help Center` section, and
check the box.

If more than one website is active on the database, confirm the correct website is listed in the
:guilabel:`Website` field. If not, select the correct one from the drop-down list.
```

After the feature is activated, click the :guilabel:`Go to Website` smart button at the top of the
:guilabel:`Teams` settings page to view and edit the new website form, which is created
automatically by Odoo.

.. note::

>    After enabling the website form, the *Teams* settings page may need to be refreshed before the
>    *Go to Website* smart button appears.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   After enabling the :guilabel:`Website Form` setting, the team's settings page may need to be
   refreshed before the :guilabel:`Go to Website` smart button appears.
```

>    As well, if a *Help Center* is published, the smart button navigates there first. Simply click
>    the :guilabel:`Contact Us` button at the bottom of the forum to navigate to the ticket
>    submission form.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   Additionally, if a *Help Center* is published, the smart button navigates there first. Simply
   click the :guilabel:`Contact Us` button, at the bottom of the forum, to navigate to the ticket
   submission form.
```

.. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-go-to-website.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the settings page of a helpdesk team emphasizing the Go to Website button in
         Odoo Helpdesk.

> Customize the website ticket form
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Website ticket form customization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

> To customize the default ticket submission form, click the :guilabel:`Edit` button in the upper
> right corner of the page. This opens the editing pane on the right side of the window. Click on one
> of the fields in the form to edit.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To customize the default ticket submission form, while on the website, click the :guilabel:`Edit`
button in the upper-right corner of the page. This opens the editing sidebar on the right side.
Then, click on one of the fields in the form on the body of the website to edit it.
```

> To add a new field, go to the :guilabel:`Field` section and click :guilabel:`+Field`. Click the
> :guilabel:`🗑️ (trash can)` icon to delete the field. Edit the other options for the new field as
> necessary:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To add a new field, go to the :guilabel:`Field` section of the sidebar, and click :guilabel:`+
Field`.

Click the :guilabel:`🗑️ (trash can)` icon to delete the field, if necessary.

Edit the other options for the new field in the sidebar, as desired:
```

> - :guilabel:`Type`: which matches an Odoo model value to the field (e.g. `Customer Name`).
> - :guilabel:`Input Type`: to determine what type of input the field should be, like `Text`, `Email`,
>   `Telephone` or `URL`.
> - :guilabel:`Label`: to give the form field a label (e.g. `Full Name`, `Email Address`, etc.). Also
>   control the label position on the form by using the nested :guilabel:`Position` options.
> - :guilabel:`Description`: which, optionally, adds an editable line under the input box to provide
>   additional contextual information related to the field.
> - :guilabel:`Placeholder`: to add a sample input value.
> - :guilabel:`Default value`: to add common use case values that most customers would find valuable.
>   For example, this can include prompts of information customers should include to make it easier to
>   solve their issue, such as an account number, or product number.
> - :guilabel:`Required`: to mark a field as required in order for the form to be submitted, toggle
>   the switch from gray to blue.
> - :guilabel:`Visibility`: to allow for absolute or conditional visibility of the field. Nested
>   options, such as device visibility, appear when certain options are selected.
> - :guilabel:`Animation`: choose whether or not the field should include animation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Type`: matches an Odoo model value to the field (e.g. `Customer Name`).
- :guilabel:`Input Type`: determine what type of input the field should be, like `Text`, `Email`,
  `Telephone` or `URL`.
- :guilabel:`Label`: give the form field a label (e.g. `Full Name`, `Email Address`, etc.). Also
  control the label position on the form by using the nested :guilabel:`Position` options.
- :guilabel:`Description`: determine whether or not to add an editable line under the input box to
  provide additional contextual information related to the field.
- :guilabel:`Placeholder`: add a sample input value.
- :guilabel:`Default value`: add common use case values that most customers would find valuable.
  For example, this can include prompts of information customers should include to make it easier to
  solve their issue, such as an account number, or product number.
- :guilabel:`Required`: determine whether or not to mark a field as required, in order for the form
  to be submitted. Toggle the switch from gray to blue.
- :guilabel:`Visibility`: allow for absolute or conditional visibility of the field. Nested options,
  such as, device visibility, appear when certain options are selected.
- :guilabel:`Animation`: choose whether or not the field should include animation.
```

.. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-web-form.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: View of the unpublished website form to submit a ticket for Odoo Helpdesk.

Reviewer 4: I'd suggest replacing this screenshot with one that showcases the Field section of the sidebar, as that's what you have just described in the doc. Currently, it only shows the top Form section.

> Once the form has been optimized and is ready for public use, :guilabel:`Save` the changes, and then
> publish the form by clicking on the :guilabel:`Unpublished` button at the top of the page.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once the form has been optimized, and is ready for public use, click :guilabel:`Save` to apply the
changes. Then, publish the form by toggling the :guilabel:`Unpublished` switch to
:guilabel:`Published` at the top of the page, if necessary.
```

> Odoo *Helpdesk* offers multiple channels where customers can reach out for assistance, such as

Reviewer 4: I can't leave a note directly on the title of this doc, but I'd suggest changing it to "Helpdesk tickets" or something similar to that, to avoid starting the doc title with a verb, as we've been instructed to avoid. I know it's a pre-existing title and you totally didn't name it that, but figured it was worth mentioning, as I just noticed it. 👍

Author: I don't necessarily want to change it to specifically "Helpdesk tickets" because it is about the ways they are received, not the tickets themselves. I confirmed in the content guidelines that verbs are ok, so I'd like to keep that, but I will change it to "Receiving tickets" and remove "start" 
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/contributing/documentation/content_guidelines.html#titles-and-headings

email, live chat, and through a website's submission form. The variety of these contact options
provides customers with multiple opportunities to receive support quickly while also allowing the
support team to manage multi-channel support tickets from one central location.

Enable channel options to submit tickets
========================================

> Go to :menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams` and choose an existing

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Go to :menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams`, and choose an existing
```

   databases, external servers are required for email aliases.

When a new *Helpdesk* team is created, an email alias is created for it. This alias can be changed
on the team's settings page.

To change a *Helpdesk* team's email alias, navigate to :menuselection:`Helpdesk app -->
Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams`, and click on a team name to open its settings page.

Then, scroll to :menuselection:`Channels --> Email Alias`. In the :guilabel:`Alias` field, type the
desired name for the team's email alias.

.. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-email-alias.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the settings page of a Helpdesk team emphasizing the email alias feature in Odoo
         Helpdesk.

.. note::
   Custom email domains are **not** required in order to use an email alias, however, they can be
   configured through the *Settings* app.

   If the database does not have a custom domain already configured, click :guilabel:`Set an Alias
   Domain` to be redirected to the :guilabel:`Settings` page. From there, enable :guilabel:`Custom
   Email Servers`.

When an email is received, the subject line becomes the title of a new *Helpdesk* ticket. The body

> of the email is also added to the ticket under the :guilabel:`Description` tab and in the ticket's

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
of the email is also added to the ticket, under the :guilabel:`Description` tab, and in the ticket's
```

   sequence of characters that specifies a match pattern in text. A match is made within the given
   range of numbers or for the set of characters.

Edit existing rules by selecting them from the :guilabel:`Channel Rules` tab, or create a new rule
by clicking :guilabel:`Add a line`.

Then, proceed to configure the details for how the rule should apply on the pop-up form that
appears.

Choose how the *Live Chat Button* displays on the webpage.

- :guilabel:`Show`: the chat button displays on the selected page.

- :guilabel:`Show with notification`: the chat button is displayed, with the addition of the
  :guilabel:`Notification text` from the :guilabel:`Options` tab.

- :guilabel:`Open automatically`: the chat button is displayed, and automatically opens the chat
  window after a designated amount of time. The amount of time is designated in the :guilabel:`Open
  automatically timer` field, which appears only when this display option is selected.

- :guilabel:`Hide`: the chat button is hidden from display on the webpage.

To include a :guilabel:`Chatbot` on this channel, select it from the drop-down menu. If the chatbot

> should only be active when no operators are available, check the box labeled :guilabel:`Enabled only

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
should only be active when no operators are available, check the box labeled, :guilabel:`Enabled only
```

if no operator`.

.. note::
   If a :doc:`chatbot </applications/websites/livechat/chatbots>` is added to a live chat channel, a
   new :guilabel:`Chatbots` smart button appears on the channel settings form. Click here to create
   and update the chatbot *script*.

   Each line in the script contains a :guilabel:`Message`, :guilabel:`Step Type`,
   :guilabel:`Answers`, and conditional *Only If* logic that applies when certain pre-filled answers
   are chosen.

   To create more steps in the script, click :guilabel:`Add a line`, and fill out the script steps
   form, according to the desired logic.

> Add the URLs for the pages where the channel should appear to in the :guilabel:`URL Regex` field.
> Only the path from the root domain is needed, not the full URL.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Add the URLs for the pages where the channel should appear in the :guilabel:`URL Regex` field.
Only the path from the root domain is needed, not the full URL.
```

:guilabel:`Website` field. If not, select the correct one from the drop-down list.

After the feature is activated, click the :guilabel:`Go to Website` smart button at the top of the
:guilabel:`Teams` settings page to view and edit the new website form, which is created
automatically by Odoo.

.. note::
   After enabling the :guilabel:`Website Form` setting, the team's settings page may need to be
   refreshed before the :guilabel:`Go to Website` smart button appears.

   Additionally, if a *Help Center* is published, the smart button navigates there first. Simply
   click the :guilabel:`Contact Us` button, at the bottom of the forum, to navigate to the ticket
   submission form.

.. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-go-to-website.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the settings page of a helpdesk team emphasizing the Go to Website button in
         Odoo Helpdesk.

Website ticket form customization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To customize the default ticket submission form, while on the website, click the :guilabel:`Edit`
button in the upper-right corner of the page. This opens the editing sidebar on the right side.

> Then, click on one of the fields in the form on the body of the website to edit it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Then, click on one of the fields in the form, on the body of the website, to edit it.
```

To add a new field, go to the :guilabel:`Field` section of the sidebar, and click :guilabel:`+
Field`.

Click the :guilabel:`🗑️ (trash can)` icon to delete the field, if necessary.

Edit the other options for the new field in the sidebar, as desired:

- :guilabel:`Type`: matches an Odoo model value to the field (e.g. `Customer Name`).
- :guilabel:`Input Type`: determine what type of input the field should be, like `Text`, `Email`,

>   `Telephone` or `URL`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  `Telephone`, or `URL`.
```

- :guilabel:`Label`: give the form field a label (e.g. `Full Name`, `Email Address`, etc.). Also
  control the label position on the form by using the nested :guilabel:`Position` options.
- :guilabel:`Description`: determine whether or not to add an editable line under the input box to
  provide additional contextual information related to the field.
- :guilabel:`Placeholder`: add a sample input value.

> - :guilabel:`Default value`: add common use case values that most customers would find valuable.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Default Value`: add common use case values that most customers would find valuable.
```

Add operators
*************

*Operators* are the users who act as agents and respond to live chat requests from customers. The
user who created the live chat channel is added by default.

To add additional users, click on the live chat channel from the :guilabel:`Website Live Chat
Channels` dashboard. Then, on the :guilabel:`Operators` tab, click :guilabel:`ADD`.

Click the checkbox next to the users to be added, and click :guilabel:`SELECT`. :guilabel:`New`
operators can be created and added to the list, as well, by filling out the :guilabel:`Create
Operators` form and then clicking :guilabel:`SAVE & CLOSE`, or :guilabel:`SAVE & NEW` for multiple

> record creations.

Author: It isn't. Ampersands seem to render oddly in Github sometimes, I don't know why. I did confirm this in make. 👍

Edit existing rules, or create a new one by clicking :guilabel:`Add a line`, and fill out the pop-up
form details based on how the rule should apply.

To include a :guilabel:`Chatbot` on this channel, select it from the drop-down menu. If the chatbot
should only be active when no operators are available, check the box labeled :guilabel:`Enabled only
if no operator`.

.. note::
   If a chatbot is added to a live chat channel, a new :guilabel:`Chatbots` smart button appears on
   the channel settings form. Click here to create and update the chatbot *script*. Each line in the
   script contains a :guilabel:`Message`, :guilabel:`Step Type`, :guilabel:`Answers`, and
   conditional *Only If* logic that applies when certain pre-filled answers are chosen. To create
   more steps in the script, click :guilabel:`Add a line` and fill out the script steps form

>    according to the desired logic.

Reviewer 3: Some clarification is needed here (maybe add a screen shot of the smart button). 

People assume chatbots are just full of AI

Add the URLs for the pages where the channel should appear to in the :guilabel:`URL Regex` field. If

> this channel should only be available to users in specific countries, add them to the

Reviewer 3: It should be noted that the full URL isn't needed only the path from the root domain. 

example: 

/contactus

no full URL placeholder.odoo.com/contactus

:guilabel:`Country` field. If this field is left blank, the channel will be available to all site
visitors.

.. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-channel-rules.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the Kanban cards for the available Live Chat channels.

Use the live chat widget
************************

The :guilabel:`Widget` tab on the live chat channel form offers a website widget that can be added
to third party platforms. Additionally, a short code is available, that can provide instant access

> to a live chat window.

Reviewer 3: What kind of thrid party platforms? helpdesk? CRM? examples will help here. Also-- is this short HTML code or java script? It looks to be javascript that needs to be exectuted

The live chat :guilabel:`Widget` can be applied to websites created through Odoo by navigating to
the :menuselection:`Website app --> Configuration --> Settings --> Email & Marketing`. Then scroll
to the :guilabel:`Live Chat` section, and select the channel to add to the site. Click
:guilabel:`Save` to apply.

To add the widget to a website created on a third-party platform, click :guilabel:`Copy` and paste
the code into the `<head>` tag on the site.

Likewise, to send a live chat session to a customer or supplier, click the second :guilabel:`Copy`

> button which contains a link to join directly.

Reviewer 3: You don't specify what code we are copying. There are two options, one is javascript and the other is an URL

Create a support ticket from a live chat session
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Once live chat is enabled, operators are able to communicate with site visitors in real time.

Reviewer 3: Is it enabled once it is set on the website settings? This isn't clear from the previous heading: Use the live chat widget

During the conversation, an operator can use the shortcut :doc:`command
</applications/websites/livechat/responses>` `/ticket` to create a ticket without leaving the chat
window. The transcript from the conversation is added to the new ticket, under the

> :guilabel:`Description` tab.

Reviewer 3: Maybe also add WA tip in here too! I think it's important to add. 

.. tip::
The WhatsApp integration (app) also has a create a ticket feature similar to Livechat. Simply type in /ticket and a Helpdesk ticket will be created instantly.

.. _receiving_tickets/website-form:

Website Form
------------

Enabling the *Website Form* setting adds a new page to the website with a customizable form. A new
ticket is created once the required form fields are filled out and submitted.

To activate the website form, navigate to a team's settings page under :menuselection:`Configuration
--> Helpdesk Teams`. Find the :guilabel:`Website Form` feature under the :guilabel:`Help Center`

> section, and check the box.

Reviewer 3: What about setting the website on the helpdesk team (under website form)

After the feature is activated, click the :guilabel:`Go to Website` smart button at the top of the
:guilabel:`Teams` settings page to view and edit the new website form, which is created
automatically by Odoo.

.. note::
   After enabling the website form, the *Teams* settings page may need to be refreshed before the
   *Go to Website* smart button appears.

> 

Reviewer 3: How do I manually add a form and link it to the helpdesk?

Author: while this is *technically* possible (you can create a form and change the action on the form to "submit a ticket" instead of "send an email", it is actually a lot more work and leaves more room for error than just enabling it through the helpdesk.

   As well, if a *Help Center* is published, the smart button navigates there first. Simply click
   the :guilabel:`Contact Us` button at the bottom of the forum to navigate to the ticket
   submission form.

.. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-go-to-website.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the settings page of a helpdesk team emphasizing the Go to Website button in
         Odoo Helpdesk.

Customize the website ticket form
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To customize the default ticket submission form, click the :guilabel:`Edit` button in the upper
right corner of the page. Then click on one of the fields in the form.

> Add, remove, or update fields as necessary to alter the information submitted by customers. Fields

Reviewer 3: Unclear how to add or remove a field

can be made marked as :guilabel:`Required`, by toggling the switch from gray to blue in the website

> builder's editor window, located under the :guilabel:`Field` section. As well, other pertinent field

Reviewer 3: location = right pane

information can be edited here, such as:

- :guilabel:`Type`: which matches an Odoo model value to the field (e.g. `Customer Name`).

> - :guilabel:`Input Type`: to determine what type of input the field should be, like `Text`, `Email`,

Reviewer 3: I don't see these two fields

Author: ![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/104637850/9ae5a1a6-68ca-46f6-b6d0-48502f990363)

  `Telephone` or `URL`.
- :guilabel:`Label`: to give the form field a label (e.g. `Full Name`, `Email Address`, etc.). Also
  control the label position on the form by using the nested :guilabel:`Position` options.
- :guilabel:`Description`: which, optionally, adds an editable line under the input box to provide
  additional contextual information related to the field.
- :guilabel:`Placeholder`: to add a sample input value.

> - :guilabel:`Default value`: to add common use case values that most customers would find valuable

Reviewer 3: does this get submitted as an answer?

- :guilabel:`Required`: which sets the field as mandatory before the form can be submitted.
- :guilabel:`Visibility`: to allow for absolute or conditional visibility of the field. Nested
  options, such as device visibility, appear when certain options are selected.

> 

Reviewer 3: additionally there is an animation option.

.. tip::

>    Text blocks can be added in the farthest 1/3 column of the ticket form page, next to the ticket

Reviewer 3: instead of farthest use -- direction, this is unclear

   form. This is an ideal place to include team information such as additional contact details,
   hours, or common helpful articles that link to the :guilabel:`Forum`.

.. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-web-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the unpublished website form to submit a ticket for Odoo Helpdesk.

Once the form has been optimized and is ready for public use, :guilabel:`Save` the changes, and then

> publish the form by clicking on the :guilabel:`Unpublished` button.

Reviewer 3: Where is the button located?

Prioritizing tickets
====================

All tickets include a :guilabel:`Priority` field. The highest priority tickets appear at the top of
the Kanban and list views.

.. image:: receiving_tickets/receiving-tickets-priority.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: View of a team's Kanban view and the prioritized tasks in Odoo Helpdesk.

Reviewer 3: I would include an arrow to the stars here, as this page is busy

Use the live chat widget
************************

The :guilabel:`Widget` tab on the live chat channel form offers a website widget that can be added
to third party platforms. Additionally, a short code is available, that can provide instant access
to a live chat window.

The live chat :guilabel:`Widget` can be applied to websites created through Odoo by navigating to
the :menuselection:`Website app --> Configuration --> Settings`. Then scroll to the :guilabel:`Live

> Chat` section, and select the channel to add to the site. Click :guilabel:`Save` to apply.

Author: Multiple, that is why you have different channels and different URLs where the channels apply

Create a support ticket from a live chat session
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once live chat is enabled, operators are able to communicate with site visitors in real time.

During the conversation, an operator can use the shortcut :doc:`command
</applications/websites/livechat/responses>` `/ticket` to create a ticket without leaving the chat
window. The transcript from the conversation is added to the new ticket, under the
:guilabel:`Description` tab.

.. _receiving_tickets/website-form:

Website Form
------------

Enabling the *Website Form* setting adds a new page to the website with a customizable form. A new
ticket is created once the required form fields are filled out and submitted.

To activate the website form, navigate to a team's settings page under :menuselection:`Configuration
--> Helpdesk Teams`. Find the :guilabel:`Website Form` feature under the :guilabel:`Help Center`
section, and check the box.

> After the feature is activated, click the :guilabel:`Go to Website` smart button at the top of the
> that :guilabel:`Teams` settings page to view and edit the new website form, which is created

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the feature is activated, click the :guilabel:`Go to Website` smart button at the top of the
:guilabel:`Teams` settings page to view and edit the new website form, which is created
```

Reviewer 2: Also, I got the error when trying to click the Go To Website smartbutton: The visibility of the team needs to be set as "Invited portal users and all internal users" in order to use the website form." Not sure if this is standard, but might want to mention this?

   - 2 stars = *High Priority*

>    - 3 stars = *Urgent*

Reviewer: Scoot these back please, no need for the bullet points to be indented
```suggestion
- 0 stars = *Low Priority*
- 1 star = *Medium Priority*
- 2 stars = *High Priority*
- 3 stars = *Urgent*
```
